# About this Release

### What's new in this release

WSO2 Identity Server version **5.5.0** is the successor of
version **5.4.1**. It contains the following new features and
enhancements to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR). 

For more information about GDPR compliance in WSO2 Identity Server,
see [General Data Protection
Regulation](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/General+Data+Protection+Regulation). 

-   Consent Management:  WSO2 Identity Server collects and manages end
    user consents when user information is shared with external parties.
    For more information, see the following topics:
    -   -   Consent Management Overview
        -   Consent Management Using REST APIs
        -   Consent Management with Single-Sign-On
        -   Managing Consent Purposes
        -   Consent Management for Self Sign Up
        -   [Configuring consent for
            services](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Using+the+End+User+Dashboard#UsingtheEndUserDashboard-Configuringconsentforservices)  

-   Privacy toolkit: This toolkit enables the system admin to clear up
    or anonymize a deleted user (i.e., remove all references to the
    user) upon the users request. For more information, see Removing
    References to Deleted User Identities.
-   Personal information export REST APIs: These APIs enable the end
    user to retrieve the personal information that WSO2 Identity Server
    has stored. For more information, see Personal Information Export
    Using REST APIs.  
-   Support for encrypting OpenID Connect ID tokens: WSO2 Identity
    Server supports encrypting the ID token that is sent to client
    applications during the OpenID Connect authentication flow. For more
    information, see Encrypting the OIDC ID Token.   
-   Uploading service provider specific public certificates: WSO2
    Identity Server now supports adding the service provider specific
    public certificate directly via the management console UI. For more
    information, see Adding a service provider. 
-   JWT audience configuration for service providers: WSO2 Identity
    Server now enables you to configure the JWT Audience for an OAuth
    application via the management console UI. For more information,
    see Configuring OAuth2-OpenID Connect Single-Sign-On.
-   Upload certificate along with SAML metadata: This enables you to
    embed the certificate in the SAML metadata and upload it along with
    the metadata when configuring SAML for a service provider. For more
    information, see Configuring SAML2 Web Single-Sign-On.
-   **Writing a post authentication handler: **WSO2 Identity Server
    enables you to write a post-authentication handler that executes
    upon successful authentication. For more information,
    see [Post-authentication Handlers in Identity
    Server](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Post-authentication+Handlers+in+Identity+Server).   
      
-   **OAuth Client Authentication Decoupling: **This enables you to
    extend the OAuth client authentication implementation by writing a
    new client authenticator. For more information, see [Writing A New
    OAuth Client
    Authenticator](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Writing+A+New+OAuth+Client+Authenticator).  
      
-   **Request object support for WSO2 Identity Server:** This enables
    sending authentication request parameters in a self-contained JWT
    instead of plain request parameters. For more information,
    see [Request Object
    Support](https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Request+Object+Support).  
    **  
    **
-   **Private key JWT authentication for OpenID Connect:** This is an
    authentication method that can be used by clients to authenticate to
    the authorization server when using the token endpoint. For more
    information, see Private Key JWT Client Authentication for OIDC.
-   XACML based scope validator: WSO2 Identity Server allows you to
    validate the scope of an OAuth access token using XACML policies to
    provide fine-grained access control to APIs. For more information,
    see Validating the Scope of OAuth Access Tokens using XACML
    Policies. 

For a complete list of improvements and bug fixes available with this
release, see the following links:

-   [5.5.0-RC2
    fixes](https://github.com/wso2/product-is/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A5.5.0-RC2)
-   5.5.0-RC1 fixes
-   5.5.0-Beta fixes
-   5.5.0-Alpha3 fixes
-   5.5.0-Alpha2 fixes
-   5.5.0-Alpha fixes
-   5.5.0-M4 fixes
-   5.5.0-M3 fixes
-   5.5.0-M2 fixes
-   5.5.0-M1 fixes

### WUM updates

This section lists new features and improvements that are introduced to
WSO2 IS 5.5.0 via WUM updates.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 52%" />
<col style="width: 47%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>New feature or improvement</th>
<th>The date of the WUM update</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Support to <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Handling+Custom+Claims+with+the+JWT+Bearer+Grant+Type">handle custom claims in a self contained access token with the JWT bearer grant type</a>.</td>
<td>Effective from the 6th of June 2018</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Support to <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Configuring+OAuth2-OpenID+Connect+Single-Sign-On#ConfiguringOAuth2-OpenIDConnectSingle-Sign-On-tokenIssuer">configure token issuer at the service provider level</a>.</td>
<td>Effective from the 15th of June 2018</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>eIDAS SAML Attribute Profile Support via WSO2 Identity Server.</td>
<td>Effective from the 8th of July 2018</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Support to <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/OpenID+Connect+Discovery#OpenIDConnectDiscovery-wumUpdate">change the default OIDC discovery endpoint path in WSO2 Identity Server to root <code>&lt;issuer&gt;/.well-known/openid-configuration</code></a>.</p></td>
<td>Effective from the 1st of August 2018</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Support to select whether or not to <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Configuring+Local+and+Outbound+Authentication+for+a+Service+Provider#ConfiguringLocalandOutboundAuthenticationforaServiceProvider-userstoreToRole">append the userstore domain name to user roles depending on your requirement</a>.</td>
<td>Effective from the 1st of August 2018</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Support to enable reCaptcha during the following account recovery scenarios:</p>
<ul>
<li>At the time of <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Username+Recovery#UsernameRecovery-reCaptchaforusernamerecovery">user name recovery</a>.</li>
<li>At the time of <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Password+Recovery#PasswordRecovery-reCaptchaforpasswordrecoveryusingnotifications">password recovery using notifications</a>.</li>
<li>At the time of <a href="https://docs.wso2.com/display/IS550/Password+Recovery#PasswordRecovery-reCaptchaforpasswordrecoveryusingchallengequestions">password recovery using challenge questions</a>.</li>
</ul></td>
<td>Effective from the 25th of September 2018</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Compatible versions

For information on the Carbon platform version and Carbon Kernel version
of WSO2 IS 5.5.0, see the [Release
Matrix](https://wso2.com/products/carbon/release-matrix/).

All WSO2 products that are based on a specific Carbon Kernel version are
expected to be compatible with each other. If you come across any
compatibility issue, [contact team WSO2](https://wso2.com/contact/).

### Known issues

All the open issues pertaining to WSO2 Identity Server are reported at
the following locations:

-   [IS Runtime](https://github.com/wso2/product-is/issues)

-   [IS Analytics](https://github.com/wso2/analytics-is/issues)
